---
layout: single
title: "VT CRO - IGVC"
author: Christopher Rosend
author_profile: true
related: true
classes: wide
header: 
    image: /assets/images/vt-cro/igvc-header.jpg.png
    teaser: /assets/images/vt-cro/vt-cro-teaser.jpg
show_date: true 

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/gutted-raphael.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/gutted-raphael.jpg
    alt: "Gutted Raphael"
    title: "Gutted the donated robot so that we can build ontop of the frame"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/raphael-cad.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/raphael-cad.jpg
    alt: "Raphael CAD"
    title: "CAD model so that we can test code with a virtual track"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/soldering.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/soldering.jpg
    alt: "Sample calculations"
    title: "Soldering the 4 connections together in parallel, looks funny but works great"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/requirements.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/requirements.jpg
    alt: "Requirements drawings"
    title: "Whiteboard detailing our requirements for the entire robot based on what we need to qualify"

---

## What is it?

This is my senior design project. We are part of an up and coming robotics organization at Virginia Tech called VT-CRO, which strives to bring competitive robotics to the campus. They compete in mainly IEEE competitions and already have sponsors like Boeing despite only being a year old. As for my team, I am competing with 6 others in the Intelligent Ground Vehicle Competition (IGVC). The competition is about building a ground vehicle that can autonomously detect lines & obstacles with a camera and navigate itself around a course, all while carrying a 20 pound payload. We have been given a chassis from the previous competition in 2011 and have been working with that.

Our goal with this project is to develop a robot that can meet the specifications set by IGVC to compete, but also to provide a good foundation for future teams to continue the work on these robots. Our progress is monitored by two professors and an industry liaison at Boeing. We have monthly design reviews where our progress is detailed and advice is given on our trajectory, planning, reasoning, and overall design.

## What have I done?

I am working on the mechanical side of the robot, which means building the chassis, figuring out the electronics, setting up battery connectors, etc. The previous team competing were competing for a different competition and retrofitted their robots for IGVC, so a good amount of work has to be done to make it usable. Things like adding a space for a payload, making it easier to route wires, and creating new connections for new components are things that I have done so far. This project will be in-progress until the end of May

<ins>My work on this will include:</ins>
- Disassembling the previous years robots
- Modifying the robots by attaching new plates, electrical boards, and sensor mounts
- Designing an electrical schematic
- Developing a CAD model for use in simulations
- Endless documentation of reasoning, design choices, QFD’s, Gantt charts, and more


<video width="900" height="600" controls muted>
  <source src="/assets/images/vt-cro/hori-moving-robot.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
{% include gallery layout="half" caption="Different parts of the process, read captions for more detail." %}

## What have I learned from this?

<ins>Experience</ins>

* Teamwork with students outside of my discipline
* Communication of concepts that might not be understood by others
* Documentation including Gantt charts, Microsoft projects, weekly progress reports, and meeting notes

<ins>Concepts</ins>

* Inter-team understanding is important when considering major design choices
* Rigorous documentation is done for a reason, and when done right it can be extremely helpful for both outsiders and yourselves
* Designing based of reasoning instead of on a whim is an amazing mindset to have
*Really internalize any advice given to you since it will help a lot
