---
layout: single
title: "VT CRO - IGVC"
author: Christopher Rosend
author_profile: true
related: true
classes: wide
header: 
    image: /assets/images/vt-cro/igvc-header.jpg.png
    teaser: /assets/images/vt-cro/vt-cro-teaser.jpg

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/raphael.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/raphael.jpg
    alt: "Shredder"
    title: "Image 3 title caption"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/gutted-raphael.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/gutted-raphael.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 3"
    title: "Image 3 title caption"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/raphael-cad.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/raphael-cad.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: "Image 2 title caption"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/requirements.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/requirements.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: "Image 2 title caption"

  - url: /assets/images/vt-cro/battery-calculations.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/vt-cro/battery-calculations.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: "Image 2 title caption"
---

## What is it?

This is my senior design project. We are part of an up and coming robotics organization at Virginia Tech called VT-CRO, which strives to bring competitive robotics to the campus. They compete in mainly IEEE competitions and already have sponsors like Boeing despite only being a year old. As for my team, I am competing with 6 others in the Intelligent Ground Vehicle Competition (IGVC). The competition is about building a ground vehicle that can autonomously detect lines & obstacles with a camera and navigate itself around a course, all while carrying a 20 pound payload. We have been given a chassis from the previous competition in 2011 and have been working with that.

Our goal with this project is to develop a robot that can meet the specifications set by IGVC to compete, but also to provide a good foundation for future teams to continue the work on these robots. Our progress is monitored by two professors and an industry liaison at Boeing. We have monthly design reviews where our progress is detailed and advice is given on our trajectory, planning, reasoning, and overall design.

## What have I done?

I am working on the mechanical side of the robot, which means building the chassis, figuring out the electronics, setting up battery connectors, etc. Currently I am working on changing the design of the chassis to fit the payload and making the electronics easier to access. The previous team competing were competing for a different competition and retrofitted their robots for IGVC, so a good amount of work has to be done to make it usable.
This project will be in-progress until the end of May
My work on this will include:
– Disassembling the previous years robots
– Modifying the robots by attaching new plates, electrical boards, and sensor mounts
– Designing an electrical schematic
– Developing a CAD model for use in simulations
– Endless documentation of reasoning, design choices, QFD’s, Gantt charts, and more
Previous robot given to us, a bit of a rats nest
In-progress CAD model
Gutted, ready for re-use
Figuring out requirements and what electronics are needed
Calculations for the necessary batteries

{% include gallery layout="half" caption="Different parts of the process." %}

## What have I learned from this?

<ins>Experience</ins>

* Teamwork with students outside of my discipline
* Communication of concepts that might not be understood by others
* Documentation including Gantt charts, Microsoft projects, weekly progress reports, and meeting notes

<ins>Concepts</ins>

* Inter-team understanding is important when considering major design choices
* Rigorous documentation is done for a reason, and when done right it can be extremely helpful for both outsiders and yourselves
* Designing based of reasoning instead of on a whim is an amazing mindset to have
*Really internalize any advice given to you since it will help a lot
